{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg936\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Light;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red48\green58\blue166;\red51\green51\blue51;\red249\green249\blue249;
\red98\green98\blue98;\red26\green26\blue26;\red66\green199\blue218;\red19\green151\blue241;\red29\green30\blue26;
\red252\green34\blue110;\red246\green246\blue239;\red224\green213\blue97;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\fs48 \cf1 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
menu
\fs52 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Title
\fs40 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf1 \cb2 CS 241 : System Programming\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf1 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Add spacer, to align navigation to the right\cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Navigation. We hide it in small screens.
\fs26 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/index.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf1 \cb2 Overview}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/mps.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf1 \cb2 MPs}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/labs.html"}}{\fldrslt \cb2 Lab Sections}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/help.html"}}{\fldrslt \cb2 Getting Help}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/schedule.html"}}{\fldrslt \cb2 Schedule}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/staff.html"}}{\fldrslt \cb2 Meet the Crew!}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs40 \cf3 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
CS 241\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/index.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs26 \cf5 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Overview}}
\fs26 \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/mps.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
MPs}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/labs.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lab Sections}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/help.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Getting Help}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/schedule.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Schedule}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/staff.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Meet the Crew!}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Your content goes here\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs112 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Know Your Tools\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs26 \cf6 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Contents\uc0\u8232 
\fs32 \cf7 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Introduction\uc0\u8232 VMs\u8232 SVN\u8232 Valgrind + GDB + Clang\u8232 Lab Attendance\u8232 HW0
\fs28 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs48 \cf1 \cb8 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Introduction
\f0\fs32 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs28 \cf6 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Please introduce yourself (lab assistants should go first) to the rest of your class.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Tell everyone your name, grade, and one interesting fact about yourself.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs48 \cf1 \cb8 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
VMs
\f0\fs32 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In this course we are using the VMs for all our development so it is important that you learn how to use them. Note: That this VM is part of the CS Cloud and we will not support any other machine for grading. This means that you should test on this VM and and not any other machine (this includes the CS2XX VM you received in CS 225, EWS, and your local machine). This is to your benefit, since the grading VM is identical to your VM. Please ssh or FastX into your VM. I have provided the ip in your svn repo. If you want to ssh in and your netid is \'91bschong2\'92 and your hostname is \'91sp16-cs241-000.cs.illinois.edu\'92, then all you need to do is enter\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
ssh bschong2@sp16-cs241-000.cs.illinois.edu\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
into your terminal. If you want a GUI, then you should use FastX and follow these {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://it.engineering.illinois.edu/user-guides/remote-access/connecting-ews-linux-fastx"}}{\fldrslt \cf10 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
instructions}} or add the -Y flag. We also have this nice, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://illinois-cs.github.io/#developing"}}{\fldrslt \cf10 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Developing in 241 guide}} to solve your problems and (hopefully) make getting started in setting up your dev environment much easier.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs48 \cf1 \cb8 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
SVN
\f0\fs32 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In this course we are using SVN to submit all our assignments\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Once you are in your VM
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 please checkout your svn repo with the following command\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
svn co https://subversion.ews.illinois.edu/svn/sp16-cs241/YOUR-NETID cs241\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
which will check out your entire SVN repo into a folder called \'91cs241\'92 into your current directory. Now change your directory into the \'91cs241\'92 folder\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf11 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
cd \cf1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
cs241\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and create a \'91know_your_tools\'92 folder\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
mkdir know_your_tools\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Now check the status of your repo\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
svn status\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and notice that you now have a \'91know_your_tools\'92 folder that needs to be added. Add the \'91know_your_tools\'92 folder to svn\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
svn add know_your_tools\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
and commit it\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
svn ci -m \cf12 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
"adding the know_your_tools folder"\cf1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs48 \cf1 \cb8 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Valgrind + GDB + Clang
\f0\fs32 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In this course you will need to know how to use Valgrind + GDB + Clang\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Once you are in your VM
\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 please create a file called \'91dumb.c\'92 in your know_your_tools directory that you just made. Now write a valid C program in \'91dumb.c\'92 that will segfault. Now compile with clang\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
clang dumb.c -o dumb -g\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run it to make sure it segfaults\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
./dumb\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run valgrind to see what line it segfaults on\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
valgrind ./dumb\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Run gdb to see what line it segfaults on\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
gdb ./dumb\
run\
backtrace\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Then exit gdb\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\fs32 \cf1 \cb9 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
quit\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs28 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Now commit \'91dumb.c\'92 to your know_your_tools folder on svn (I leave this as an exercise to the reader).</div>\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs48 \cf1 \cb8 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lab Attendance
\f0\fs32 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Part of your grade in this class is to attend labs. Toward the end of every lab we will ask you to swipe out. You may only leave early if you show that you have finished the lab to your lab attendant or if the lab attendant calls the time. If you are late (like more than 10 minutes), then your lab attendant reserves the right to not swipe you for the day. You may never swipe yourself out without your lab attendant\'92s consent (any violation will result in a 0 in lab attendance for the semester). Also, you must attend the lab section you have been assigned to unless you have an exemption from our GA (cs241admin@illinois.edu). We will never grant exemptions for lab attendance (if you have an interview, then you are just going to have to use your drop). You also can not make up lab attendance. Attendance grades will be uploaded to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://chara.cs.illinois.edu/gb"}}{\fldrslt \cf10 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Chara}} every Friday 11:59pm. You have until Friday 11:59pm of the next week to refute attendance grades. Note that forgetting to swipe out is not a valid excuse (your lab attendant is not allowed to vouch for your attendance).\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs48 \cf1 \cb8 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
HW0
\f0\fs32 \cf6 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
You have already been assigned a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/angrave/SystemProgramming/wiki/HW0"}}{\fldrslt \cf10 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
HW0}} for this class. The lab instructors will go around to make sure that you have made progress on this assignment. For your final submission you must submit a pdf called \'93hw0.pdf\'94 in your \'93know_your_tools\'94 folder. This is due with the rest of this lab. If you finish the lab early we recommend sticking around and getting help from the lab assistants.}